MSc Dissertation Abstract submission
Title
The thesis title should give a clear indication of the topic being studied.
Keep in mind: There is always the possibility to improve the wording at later
stages of your research. Your future employer may ask you about the topic of
your dissertation so try to make it interesting!
 The Problem: The proposal should contain a description of the study problem
which includes specification of the study question(s), in relation to previous
research and to the literature.
Keep in mind: A well – stated description of the problem will also help you to
stay focused during your research
.
 Theoretical Framework and Background Information: the proposal should
discuss the major theoretical premises and the salient concepts which underlie
the problem or question(s). The proposal should then outline a framework,
based on literature, for analyzing the problem and question(s).
 Design and Methods The questions and/or hypotheses for the thesis are
formulated clearly and in such a way that all the study variables and their
anticipated relationships are specified. Procedures should be clearly outlined,
including details of about data (for empirical projects) and resources (for
literature review) that will be used.
Keep in mind: The objectives of your thesis should be specific, measurable
(you must know when you have reached your goal), achievable (don’t try to
attempt too much given the time you have to complete your dissertation. A
complete dissertation is always better than an incomplete one!), and realistic
(for example, in the case of an empirical project do you have the resources
needed to collect your data?).
 Data Analysis (for empirical projects): The methods of analysis appropriate
for the study design should be described.
 Work Plan: The proposal should include a detailed work plan, with estimates of
time needed to complete each phase of the proposed research.
Keep in mind : You have time constraints!
 Wordcount: min 500 - max 750 words
 Penalisation: See your guidelines
