ECOM107 – ECOM093 – ECOM218 –
ECOM200
Dissertation Module Leader: Thomai Filippeli
School of Economics and Finance
ECOM107 - ECOM093 – ECOM218 – ECOM200
What is the difference?
Your semester C options:
• ECOM107 – Dissertation (45 credits).
• ECOM218 – Applied Project in Valuation (30 credits) alongside the taught module, ECOM154 Further
Topics in Valuation (15 credits). This option is NOT available for MSc Finance and Machine Learning
• ECOM200 - Research project plus two elective modules (all three worth 15 credits each)
For students on a CFA pathway programme
• ECOM093 – Short Dissertation (30 credits) alongside the taught module, ECOM106 CFA Training (15
credits)
• ECOM200 - Research project plus ECOM106 (CFA Training) module and one elective module.
ECOM107 - Dissertation
● Independent piece of work. It is an empirical dissertation.
● Empirical dissertation involves formulating a research question, collecting data, analysing the data
using appropriate econometric methods, and drawing conclusions based on the evidence.
● Suggested for students with good quantitative skills.
● 45 credits (it is equivalent of three taught modules).
● Dissertation length: 7,000 words
● Data Analysis module available in ECOM107 QMPlus page.
● Supervisory meetings: 4 meetings with the supervisors + 4 meetings with a TA.
ECOM218 – Applied Project in Valuation
● Independent piece of work. It is a valuation project.
● Students are expected to produce an investment recommendation report on a listed company, based
on a comprehensive valuation analysis.
● 30 credits (it is equivalent of two taught modules).
● Project length: 4,000 words
● ECOM154 (Further Topics is Valuation) is a compulsory module in semester C for the students who
select ECOM218.
● Supervisory meetings: 2 meetings with the supervisor + 3 meetings with a TA.
ECOM093 - Short Dissertation
● This module is available only for CFA pathway students.
● Independent piece of work. It can be either an empirical dissertation or a valuation dissertation.
● Empirical dissertation is suggested for students with good quantitative skills.
● 30 credits (it is equivalent of two taught modules).
● Dissertation length: 4,000 words
● Data Analysis module available in ECOM093 QMPlus page.
● ECOM106 (CFA Training) is a compulsory module in semester C for the students who select ECOM093.
● Supervisory meetings: 4 meetings with the supervisors + 4 meetings with a TA.
ECOM200 – Research Project
● Independent piece of work. It is a literature review - based project.
● Students are expected to produce an investment recommendation report on a listed company, based
on a comprehensive valuation analysis.
● Project length: 2,500 words
● 15 credits.
● Two additional modules in semester C. If CFA students opt for ECOM200, then one of the two
modules is ECOM106.
● Meetings with the supervisor only.
Deadline for choosing your module
Deadline to choose between ECOM107, ECOM218, ECOM093 (CFA students) and ECOM200 is
Friday 6th February 2026.
• After this date you cannot change your choice.
• This is the same deadline as for your semester B modules
• Choice must be selected via MySis
ECOM107 – ECOM093
Dissertation and Short Dissertation
Dissertation Module Leader: Thomai Filippeli
School of Economics and Finance
Important Deadlines for ECOM107 and ECOM093
● Topic selection: Friday 20th February 2026 (topics have been proposed by supervisors and some
topics have been discussed in Data Analysis module).
● Supervisor allocation: your will receive your supervisor details in mid- March 2026.
● Proposal submission: Friday 17th April 2026 (last day of semester B).
● Final submission: Monday 17th August 2026.
● Dissertation reflection viva: 24th August – 6th September 2026.
How many meetings with my Supervisor?
● Four (4) meetings in total:
▪ One meeting in late March/early April. Students will discuss with their supervisor their topic
before the proposal submission (17 April 2026).
▪ Three meetings over the summer in the period (08 June 2026 – 07 August 2026).
▪ Attendance is recorded.
● Meetings must be booked via QMPlus:
▪ Students can pick up available slots that supervisors will release well in advance.
▪ It is your responsibility to arrange your meetings with your supervisor on time.
How many meetings with my Teaching Assistant (TA)?
● Four (4) meetings in total:
▪ All the meetings with the TAs are in during the period (15 June 2026 – 07 August 2026).
● Meetings must be booked via QMPlus:
▪ Students can pick up available slots that supervisors will release well in advance.
▪ It is your responsibility to arrange your meetings with your teaching assistant on time.
● The last day of supervision is Friday 7th August 2026. After that date you can no longer arrange any
further meetings with your supervisor and teaching assistant.
Dissertation Assessments (ECOM107 and ECOM093)
ECOM107 and ECOM093 dissertation modules have two assessment components:
• Dissertation submission – 80% of the module mark
• Dissertation reflection session (Viva Voce) – 20% of the module mark.
Dissertation Reflection Session (Viva Voce)
● What is a reflection session?
• The reflection session is a short interview between the student and the supervisor
• After the student has uploaded the final version of their dissertation for grading.
• No further changes can be made to the essay.
• An opportunity to reflect on what students have learned from the process.
• The examiners will have an opportunity to:
o ask the student a variety of open-ended questions to elicit holistic evidence of the student’s
learning experience.
o confirm the authenticity of the student’s ideas and sources
• The students will reflect on successes and difficulties encountered in the dissertation
Dissertation Reflection Session (Viva Voce)
● When and where does it take place?
• 24 August – 6 September 2026. Supervisor will release different time slots.
• Online on Microsoft Teams
● How to book a slot
• Slots can be booked on QMPlus. Please make sure you book them on time.
ECOM218
Applied Project in Valuation
Dissertation Module Leader: Thomai Filippeli
School of Economics and Finance
Important Deadlines for ECOM218
• Topic selection: Friday 20th February 2026 (students have to choose one company suggested by the
School for their valuation project. There is cap to the number of students for each company).
• Supervisor allocation: your will receive your supervisor detail in June 2026.
• ECOM154 (Further Topics in Valuation) module runs in the first part of semester C (1 June – 3 July 2026)
• Final submission: Monday 17th August 2026.
• Dissertation reflection viva: 24th August – 6th September 2026.
ECOM154 – Further Topics in Valuation
• It is a requirement to take ECOM154 (Further Topics in Valuation) if undertaking the Applied Project in
Valuation (ECOM218);
• This module is taught over the first five weeks of Semester C (1 June – 3 July 2026)
• Assessment:
o 20% 2 Online Quizzes
o 20% Group Discussion Case (Report)
o 60% Examination (2 hours) during semester C examination period (17 August – 28 August 2026).
• Further details about syllabus and assessment will be presented by the module leader during the
lectures.
ECOM218 - How many meetings with my Supervisor?
● Supervisory meetings:
▪ Two (2) meetings with your supervisor over the summer in the period (06 July 2026 – 07 August 2026).
▪ Three (3) meetings with your teaching assistant over the summer in the period (06 July 2026 –
07 August 2026).
▪ Attendance is recorded.
● Meetings must be booked via QMPlus:
▪ Students can pick up available slots that supervisors will release well in advance.
▪ It is your responsibility to arrange your meetings with your supervisor on time.
● The last day of supervision is Friday 7th August 2026. After that date you can no longer arrange any further
meetings with your supervisor and teaching assistant.
Assessments for ECOM218
ECOM218 Applied Project in Valuation has two assessment components:
• Dissertation submission – 80% of the module mark
• Dissertation reflection session (Viva Voce) – 20% of the module mark.
Dissertation Reflection Session (Viva Voce)
● What is a reflection session?
• The reflection session is a short interview between the student and the supervisor
• After the student has uploaded the final version of their dissertation for grading.
• No further changes can be made to the essay.
• An opportunity to reflect on what students have learned from the process.
• The examiners will have an opportunity to:
o ask the student a variety of open-ended questions to elicit holistic evidence of the student’s
learning experience.
o confirm the authenticity of the student’s ideas and sources
• The students will reflect on successes and difficulties encountered in the dissertation
Dissertation Reflection Session (Viva Voce)
● When and where does it take place?
• 1 – 6 September 2026. Supervisor will release different time slots.
• Online on Microsoft Teams
● How to book a slot
• Slots can be booked on QMPlus. Please make sure you book them on time.
ECOM200
Research Project
School of Economics and Finance
ECOM200 - Research Project
• The Research Project is an independent piece of work and will give students the ability to:
o analyse evidence and use that evidence to construct an argument;
o reflect critically and develop independent thinking;
o advance their knowledge of the field covered by their degree programme.
• The Research Project has a 2,500-word length limit.
• In semester C you will be taking ECOM200 (Research Project) plus tow elective modules. All the three
modules worth 15 credits each.
• Research Project submission deadline: 17 August 2026.
• Semester C examination period: 17 August – 28 August 2026
ECOM107 – ECOM093 – ECOM218 –
ECOM200
Additional Information
Dissertation Module Leader: Thomai Filippeli
School of Economics and Finance
The role of the Supervisor
● The dissertation is intended to provide an opportunity for students to pursue a valuation/research
project independently.
● Students are entirely responsible for the work for their dissertation.
● The role of the supervisor is to offer advice and guidance, not to direct the research.
● Your supervisor will help you to identify a topic, to draw up a suitable preliminary bibliography and
to plan the primary and secondary research you will need to do for the dissertation.
● He/she will be available to advise you on approach, coverage, questions to be asked and the outline
structure and research design.
The role of the Supervisor (cont'd)
● More specifically, the supervisor is expected to:
▪ assist you in the definition and organisation of your project in the early stages of
preparation;
▪ offer you advice about sources;
▪ advise you on the feasibility of what you plan to do;
▪ approve your dissertation proposal.
The role of the Teaching Assistant
● You must not expect the teaching assistants to do the work for you!
● The role of the teaching assistant is to offer assistance at various stages of your dissertation.
● For empirical projects:
● the teaching assistant will assist you on how to download data and use library resources. If
you also need help with the statistical package (Eviews) you use, teaching assistant will give
you guidance.
● the teaching assistant will assist you on how to download papers using the QMUL library
resources and/or show you alternative ways to do so.
● Teaching assistant will not give you suggestions about your research approach and will not
recommend research methods and literature. Teaching assistants have a supportive role only.
Citing and Referencing
Plagiarism:
● Your dissertation should be the output of your own work.
● Incorrect referencing and citations may be considered plagiarism.
● For detecting plagiarism, the School uses Turnitin.
● Before your final submission, you will be able to check your work on Turnitin.
Citing and Referencing:
● Additional information about citing and referencing will be provided in the summer.
How to Submit your Dissertation/Project
● Your dissertation/project must submitted twice (both in electronic form):
▪ by uploading your document on QMPlus, AND;
▪ by email to econ-diss@qmul.ac.uk
● Students are responsible for the proper upload of their own document.
Make sure that you upload your document well in advance before the deadline (17 August 2026).
● Dissertations that are submitted late will be penalised at the rate of 5 marks deduction for each 24-
hour period after the set submission time. Work submitted 7 calendar days or more after the deadline
will be awarded zero (check your handbook). This rule applies for all days including weekends.
Late Submission Policy
● Dissertations that are submitted late will be penalised at the rate of 5 marks deduction for each 24
hour period after the set submission time.
● Work submitted 7 calendar days or more after the deadline will be awarded zero (check your
handbook). This rule applies for all days including weekends.
Extenuating Circumstances (ECs)
Extenuating Circumstances:
● Applications for extensions will only be considered if accompanied by a medical certificate (in
English) (see your handbook for more details).
● Extenuating Circumstances are ultimately verified by the Exam Board and can be rejected.
Students that fail to submit by the deadline may submit the following year, but this attempt will be
capped at 50%.
Contact
Prof Thomai Filippeli
MSc Dissertation Module Leader
Email: t.filippeli@qmul.ac.uk
Room: GC 5.19 (Graduate Centre)
